# Source: https://darksouls2.wiki.fextralife.com/Pilgrims+of+Dark

**Pilgrims of the Dark** is a PvE Covenant in **Dark Souls 2**. This is a unique covenant that allows players to test their worth in a series of challenges. Covenant members have exclusive access to the [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") areas (see the [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") page for more information). 

**Covenant Leader** : [Darkdiver Grandahl](/Darkdiver+Grandahl "Dark Souls 2 Darkdiver Grandahl")  
**Where to Join** : [Black Gulch](/Black+Gulch "Dark Souls 2 Black Gulch"), [Shaded Ruins](/Shaded+Ruins "Dark Souls 2 Shaded Ruins"), [Drangleic Castle](/Drangleic+Castle "Dark Souls 2 Drangleic Castle")

## How to Join Pilgrims of Dark

In order to access this Covenant one must talk to Darkdiver Grandahl in all three different locations:

  1. [Black Gulch](/Black+Gulch "Dark Souls 2 Black Gulch"): Drop down near the two worms, you should see a gate. In order to open it, drop down again. Continue into the cave to see two Giants, killing them will give you the key to the door. He can be found behind it.
  2. [Shaded Ruins](/Shaded+Ruins "Dark Souls 2 Shaded Ruins"): Go right from the giant basilisk until you come to the path to the Boss between the two buildings. Instead of going through, look around the nearby grassy area, there is scaffolding where you will drop down to the area with him.
  3. [Drangleic Castle](/Drangleic+Castle "Dark Souls 2 Drangleic Castle"): In the other room outside the **Under Castle Drangleic** Bonfire.

After talking to him in these locations, he will offer you to join the Pilgrims of Dark. Note that it doesn't matter which order you visit these locations to join.

The first time you join the covenant, [Darkdiver Grandahl](/Darkdiver+Grandahl "Dark Souls 2 Darkdiver Grandahl") will open that Dark Chasm for free and will give you an [Abyss Seal](/Abyss+Seal "Dark Souls 2 Abyss Seal").. To open the Dark Chasms after that, you must speak with him and give him a [Human Effigy](/Human+Effigy "Dark Souls 2 Human Effigy"). You are then able to go to special Abyss dungeons in these three locations by offering a Human Effigy to him. The dungeons themselves contain four dark phantoms. They are very fast and deal high damage, and you will often have to fight them simultaneously, so doing this in the endgame is recommended. The goal in these dungeons is to light a bonfire with a torch, so bring flame butterflies. When you light all three beacons and defeat the [Darklurker](/Darklurker "Dark Souls 2 Darklurker"), all three [Dark Chasms of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") will be opened permanently for that NG cycle, allowing free access as long as you're in the covenant (they will be closed again when you enter the next NG+ cycle).

  * [Pilgrims of the Dark Video Walk-through (All Locations)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zc7E4KeqL3k) \- Lucians_sword

### Abyss Invasions

If you use a [Cracked Red Eye Orb](/Cracked+Red+Eye+Orb "Dark Souls 2 Cracked Red Eye Orb") while in a [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"), you will invade another player who is in any of the three [Dark Chasms](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") as an abyss spirit. If you use a [Red Sign Soapstone](/Red+Sign+Soapstone "Dark Souls 2 Red Sign Soapstone"), your red sign will appear in other player's worlds exactly where you left it, and they can use your red sign to summon you as an abyss spirit (there is a rumor that the red sign soapstone will allow you to automatically invade players in the dark chasms similar to the [Looking Glass Knight](/Looking+Glass+Knight "Dark Souls 2 Looking Glass Knight"); this is false. Aside from causing you to invade as an abyss spirit instead of a dark spirit, the red sign soapstone does not function any differently than normal). Defeating another player while in a [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") (either as a host or as an invader) will award you with a [Bonfire Ascetic](/Bonfire+Ascetic "Dark Souls 2 Bonfire Ascetic") and a [human effigy](/human+effigy "Dark Souls 2 human effigy"). Since other players drop [Bonfire Ascetics](/Bonfire+Ascetic "Dark Souls 2 Bonfire Ascetic") 100% of the time, this can be a very fast and effective way to farm for [Bonfire Ascetics](/Bonfire+Ascetic "Dark Souls 2 Bonfire Ascetic"), provided you have [Cracked Red Eye Orbs](/Cracked+Red+Eye+Orb "Dark Souls 2 Cracked Red Eye Orb") or a [Red Sign Soapstone](/Red+Sign+Soapstone "Dark Souls 2 Red Sign Soapstone"). Killing players as an abyss spirit does not give you [sin](/Sin "Dark Souls 2 Sin").   
  
Note: invading and killing invaders has no bearing on covenant rank, but the Dark Chasm must be completely cleared of enemies and invaders before the host can progress through the area. Invaders basically act as additional enemy phantoms for the host to overcome.   
  
Invasions in the [Dark Chasms of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") function differently than invasions in any other area of the game:

  * Only members of the [Pilgrims of Dark](/Pilgrims+of+Dark "Dark Souls 2 Pilgrims of Dark") covenant can enter a [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"), so only [Pilgrims of Dark](/Pilgrims+of+Dark "Dark Souls 2 Pilgrims of Dark") covenant members can invade there. Players in other covenants cannot invade into a [Dark Chasm](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") under any circumstances, even if they have global invasion (such as the [Blue Sentinels](/Blue+Sentinels "Dark Souls 2 Blue Sentinels")).
  * You cannot use the [White Sign Soapstone](/White+Sign+Soapstone "Dark Souls 2 White Sign Soapstone") in a [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"), so it is impossible to summon another player for assistance while there. In fact, the [Dark Chasms of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") do not have summon slots at all, and instead have additional invasion slots to replace them. This means that it's entirely possible for a player to be invaded by up to three human players simultaneously, or up to **five** in the Scholar of the First Sin edition! But invaders may not necessarily be hostile towards the host, since they can simply kill another invader to receive a [Bonfire Ascetic](/Bonfire+Ascetic "Dark Souls 2 Bonfire Ascetic") (at which point they'll be returned to their world). If you are hosting multiple invaders in a [Dark Chasm](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"), a simple solution is to just let them kill each other.
  * If you are invading in a [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"), your goal is to defeat a player, be it the host or another invader. Once you have landed the killing blow on a player the "Target Destroyed" message will flash on your screen and you will be returned to your own world with a [Bonfire Ascetic](/Bonfire+Ascetic "Dark Souls 2 Bonfire Ascetic") and souls, and your equipment durability, [Estus Flask](/Estus+Flask "Dark Souls 2 Estus Flask") uses, and spell charges will all be restored. Players are not rewarded for player deaths if they did not land the killing blow. But this is not an easy goal, since the enemies will attack invaders along with the host. Make sure you can deal with anything the [Dark Chasm](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") can throw at you before invading!
  * The enemies in the [Dark Chasms of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") are hostile to invaders, and will attack them as if the host had used a [Seed of a Tree of Giants](/Seed+of+a+Tree+of+Giants "Dark Souls 2 Seed of a Tree of Giants"). This means that while you can use a [Seed of a Tree of Giants](/Seed+of+a+Tree+of+Giants "Dark Souls 2 Seed of a Tree of Giants") while in a [Dark Chasm](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"), it will have no effect and the seed will effectively be wasted.
  * If you have ranks in the [Brotherhood of Blood](/Brotherhood+of+Blood "Dark Souls 2 Brotherhood of Blood") or [Blue Sentinels](/Blue+Sentinels "Dark Souls 2 Blue Sentinels") covenants while invading in a [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"), your invasion aura will carry over as an abyss spirit. For example, if you have reached rank 2 as a [Blue Sentinel](/Blue+Sentinels "Dark Souls 2 Blue Sentinels") then join the [Pilgrims of Dark](/Pilgrims+of+Dark "Dark Souls 2 Pilgrims of Dark") covenant and use a [Cracked Red Eye Orb](/Cracked+Red+Eye+Orb "Dark Souls 2 Cracked Red Eye Orb") in a [Dark Chasm](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"), you will have the blue aura while invading. (To you your character will simply look blue, but other players will see the full rank 2 aura).
  * If you are wearing [Black Dragon Armor](/Dragon+Torso+Stone "Dark Souls 2 Dragon Torso Stone") and using any of the Black Dragon weapons, you will look like a [Dragon Spirit](/Dragon+Eye "Dark Souls 2 Dragon Eye") while in a [Dark Chasm](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old").
  * Abyss spirits can use [Estus](/Estus+Flask "Dark Souls 2 Estus Flask") and other healing items just like the host can.
  * Abyss spirits ([Dark Chasm](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old") invaders) DO NOT have a timer, and can stay in a host's world until either they have died, the host has died, or the invader has landed a killing blow on another player (either the host or a different invader).
  * There is no cooldown time on invasions in the [Dark Chasm of Old](/Dark+Chasm+of+Old "Dark Souls 2 Dark Chasm of Old"). This means if you kill an invader, you have until their loading screen is gone before they can invade you again. And if there are no other players for them to invade except you, that is exactly what will happen.
  * If there are any abyss spirits in your world, the fog wall blocking the exit will not lift until they are either dead or gone. This means you cannot leave the area or challenge the [Darklurker](/Darklurker "Dark Souls 2 Darklurker") until all invaders have been defeated. If the fog wall is still there even though you've killed all enemies in the area, it is a sure sign you're being invaded.

### Rank
    
    
    | Rank | Requirement | Reward |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | 0 | Initial | Abyss Seal |
    | 1 | Clear one of the three Abyssal Dungeons (3 locations) | Resonant Soul (Hex) |
    | 2 | Clear all three Abyssal Dungeons (Also: Light up the fire beacons inside each dungeon) | Great Resonant Soul / (Hex) |
    | 3 | Defeat the boss Darklurker | Climax / (Hex) / Xanthous Set / Unlimited access to Dark Chasm / Dragon Chime / (After talking to him) |
    

### Notes, Hints, and Tips

  * When you teleport out of the dungeon area versus going out the correct way (the blocked off hole), the game glitches and the player won't rank up above rank 1 regardless of number of completions to each and every dungeon (360 & PS3 version / using a Bonfire Ascetic does not seem to fix it). On Console (Xbox 360) I fixed it by going back into every dungeon and re-lighting the fire. (If you port out, it will un-light the fire)
  * Players have reported that joining another covenant and then abandoning the covenant will allow the player to rank up in the Pilgrims of Dark covenant again. Note that you must not rejoin the Pilgrims of Dark. Just join a random covenant and abandon it, then return and Darkdiver Grandahl will treat you as if you were in the Pilgrims of Dark covenant and allow you to rank up.
  * If you get stuck on rank 2 after defeating Darklurker, re-entering the Black Gulch dungeon and doing it again seems to fix it and you can get rank 3 after talking to Darkdriver Grandahl.

EDIT/TESTED for 360(4/30/14): Glitch has been fixed. Teleported from second dungeon, still got rank 2 after completion of all 3.